Hi, everyone, in this lecture, we are going to talk about String Method's.
All right, so we know what the word string means in the world of JavaScript, but we don't know what
the word method means in the world of JavaScript.
So methods are actually functions.
Now, you might ask, okay, what is the difference between a method and a function?
Now, functions are called or are defined or are declared standalone.
When we call a function as a property of an object, then that functions name becomes a method.
So methods are actually functions.
But the difference with a regular JavaScript function is that methods are called upon objects.
Now you might ask, OK, what is the relationship between a string and an object?
Because strings, they are primitive data types and objects.
They are reference data types.
Now the relationship comes into play when I tell you that we can create strengths in two ways in JavaScript.
So the first way that I'm going to do is through the through the new string object.
So this is the first way that we can create strengths.
And I'm just going to show you now, because we can create strings through the new string object.
That's why strings can borrow methods from objects.
Right.
So let's go ahead and let's call it not name.
Let's call it like.
City.
All right, so to create a string using the string object, we just say string, and in here we pass
in the name.
So it is London.
All right.
Now, let's go ahead and let's call it cancel the log.
Let's print it to the console and we are going to say city.
And when I say that you're going to see that it says it is a string.
And I guess I can see that the syntax, it resembles an object, but it is actually not an object.
Strings are not objects.
They behave as though they're objects, but they're not objects.
We can apply object methods on strengths and that that does not make them string, that does not make
them objects, but they can behave like objects.
And in here you can see that every word, every letter of this word has been indexed starting from the
zero.
So indices in JavaScript, they start from zero and the number of indexes is always one less than the
length of that, whatever that is, whether that is an object or an array.
All right.
So this is the first way of creating a string.
The second way is through string literal, which is actually the official name after ESX was released
or E 215 was released.
It is actually a string literal or a Narey literal, an object literal.
We do not like call him object anymore.
We call him object literal.
But what about when we say object we actually mean object literal or string literal because it's easier
to say, it's easier to pronounce.
Now in the second way, let's say we have another let's create another string using the string literal
and I'm going to say movie and the movie name.
Let's go ahead and let's say Memento.
Memento.
All right, let's log it to the console movie, and we are going to see that we only have momentum.
So this is a string literal and what we saw before was a string object.
OK, so now there are some methods.
Now, there are actually a lot of methods for strength.
What I'm going to do is I'm just going to cover the most relevant and most used ones.
All right.
So the first method that I want to talk about is actually called to uppercase.
And what does and what this method does is it grabs any string and it uppercase.
Is that all the letters inside that word or inside that sentence or inside that string will become uppercase.
So now let's go ahead and let's grab this movie, string this memento and let's uppercase.
So for that, I'm just going to come into the console that look there and in here, I'm just going to
go ahead and call another console, the lock.
And the way you can call methods up on strings is that first you write the name of the string and then
you do doeth.
When you do that, you have access to all of these methods.
These are all methods in JavaScript now.
Methods are actually properties of an object.
All right.
So in JavaScript we have methods and we have properties.
And when you have this sort of cube, this like, I don't know, is it like purple?
These are methods.
And when they are blue like this one and they're rotated like this, they are properties.
So the length is a property.
The rest of them are methods.
Again, let's see, we don't have any other property, so we grab the two uppercase because this is
a method.
You have to provide it with the parentheses, with an opening and closing parentheses.
But when you call properties on any string or on anything, then you don't have to provide it with the
parentheses.
All right.
That's the difference between a property and a method.
And now you guys can see this this this momentum has been capitalized.
So this is the first method that I wanted to talk about.
The second method is, you guessed it right.
It's to lower case, lower case.
And here you can see the actual camel case.
Upper upper is the second word and the first letter has been capitalized.
Case is the third word and the first letter has been capitalized.
This is how camel casing works in JavaScript.
So now what I'm going to do is we are just going to plug it to the console because it's way better.
Like visually we can see that.
So we are going to call our variable name, which is movie, and we are going to tap into the world
of methods and we are going to say to lowercase.
To lower case and do not forget the opening and closing quarterly basis, because this is a method and
let's save it now, everything is lowercase again, OK, to make sure that it is lower case.
I'm just going to go ahead uncommented out there and I'm going to write it here uncommented and I'm
going to provide all the letters capital momento.
All right, so if it doesn't make a difference.
So this was the second method that I wanted to talk about.
I'm just going to come and this back in.
The third method method that I want to talk about is actually called concatenation.
Right.
So how can we join two strings together?
OK, so a better example of this would be like a full name and a name and a phone name.
So I'm just going to say concat to concatenation, I hope I spelled it correctly.
So let's say we have a name and the name is Tony.
Right.
And then let's say we have a last name and the last name is Rogers.
Let me grab this one and change it to first name.
First name.
All right, so now if I go ahead, if I go ahead and if I sort the log first name plus last name, let's
save it.
And now you guys can see we have Tony Rogers, but we don't have any space in between them.
So how can we remedy that, though?
There are the the first way that we can remedy that is just provide an empty string here.
So the empty string is going to have a space inside of that, inside of it.
And when we save it now, you guys can see we have some space here, right.
So this is the first way that we can remedy this.
The second way is using a string template.
Template, literal, OK, and string template literals is instead of these quotes we use back tick's
now in my keyboard keyboard Batek, they are on top of the tab key.
You can just show the onscreen keyboard and searched for their right.
So in here what I'm going to do is I'm going to say console the log and we are going to hit our tactics
and I hope you guys can see it.
I'm just going to zoom it in.
Oh, it's not zooming in.
Yeah, it is zooming.
And so now you guys can see these are actually back tricks.
They're not quotes anymore.
All right, so in here, what I'm going to do is I'm going to I'm going to use a template literal,
which starts with a dollar sign and to curly braces.
And in the first one, I'm just going to write first name and I'm going to provide a space.
And in the second one, I'm going to write the last name.
OK, now keep in mind that inside this template literals, you can only pass variables you cannot pass
like simple strings.
You should pass a valid JavaScript identifiers.
And when we save it, the result is the same.
So the next method and the.
Last one that I want to talk about in this lecture is the length, which is not actually a method,
it is a prop..
OK, so it is the length property length.
Right.
And the length property does exactly what this new strange object did.
It gives us the length of the string that we have here.
Right.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to say cancel the log and we are going
to grab the first name.
And we are simply going to say the length now, because length is a prop. we do not need to provide
it with curly brace, with sorry parentheses.
And when we say it is going to say four because t o and why there are four letters there, we can do
the same for last name.
And it should be six and now it is six, so that's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.